in this lesson we're going to explore
identifying the differences between
capital expenditure and operational
expenditure and understanding the
consumption-based model
if we go and look at the breakdown of
again those skills assessed what we're
looking at here are these second two
in this video
that's what we're actually going to
cover in this particular video
now if we think about capital
expenditure that's the idea of
purchasing an asset up front this could
be a server it could be a storage rate
could be networking equipment
so i'm purchasing a certain
asset
that's giving me some of that capacity
on which i can run services now it could
also be licensing but i'm pre-purchasing
something that i plan to use for a
certain period of time
so capital or capex
is really something we typically think
about as for on premises
we're purchasing some asset
that we need to use for a certain amount
of time to make that purchase worthwhile
then we depreciate it over a period of
time
operational expenditure or opex
is really what we think about with
things like the cloud
this is where we're not purchasing it up
front
we're purchasing the resource the
service as we use it there's no upfront
cost it's just consumption based
this is how we buy services in the cloud
and if we think about the difference
between those
a capex
i need all that money up front
i have to be able to purchase all of
that so it's a big upfront expenditure
and i have to have a really good idea
what am i going to be doing a year down
the line three years down the line
because i'm purchasing this piece of
equipment that has to last a certain
amount of time
that's pretty difficult in today's times
the amount of innovation we have to feel
confident hey i'm buying this thing i
know i'm going to keep using it so many
companies get stuck with hardware or
licenses they spend a huge amount of
money on a license
well their needs change but i can't
react
with opex and the cloud i'm paying for
what i need at that moment in time
and i can be super flexible and change
my mind on that so opex enables better
management of the costs and it can even
help in terms of net profit for the
organization because i'm paying as i'm
using it
as i get more successful well sure i
might need more resource that
scalability
but i'm being more successful so i've
got more money coming in so i'll pay for
the resource i need
to be more successful
for companies that are starting out
the old days of this capital expenditure
to stand up all of the infrastructure
required could destroy a company
with opex as a starting out company i
don't have some huge initial outlay and
if i'm successful
as i grow my bill goes up but i'm being
more successful i'm okay doing that
and that opex really does lead in
and is a key part of this consumption
so this is consumption based that's the
whole point
as i'm using as i'm using a virtual
machine
because i'm using a container as i'm
writing bits to disk
i'm consuming that service and i pay for
what i am consuming now different types
of service may build with different
units maybe it's just based on capacity
maybe it's transactions maybe it's just
a certain unit of size it's going to
vary whatever is more logical for that
particular service
but the key point is i pay for what i'm
actually using i'm not having any of
those upfront costs i'm not buying
infrastructure i'm not buying licenses
i'm just
paying for what i need at this moment in
time
so it's really great for me as an
organization that i'm not potentially
stifling future innovation by saddling
myself with some set of assets and
because i spent so much money
i have to make sure i keep using them
because i'm paying for what i use once
again i can be very flexible if i'm
using more i pay more
if i'm using less
i pay less
and that actually gives me a lot of
capability yes services will use auto
scale they can add and remove instances
constantly
based on the amount of work that i
currently have at any moment in time
but that consumption based nature really
opens the cloud up to a lot of unique
scenarios that would be very hard to
match on premises
if you think about this picture i drew
with this very variability
that maybe again is a day a week a month
for a year multiple years
but any scenario where it's not just
some flat line that ability to only pay
for what i'm using at that moment is
huge
now that scenario could be something
like hey
it's on and it's off
it might look like that maybe it is that
tax system that runs for two months out
of the year maybe it's an election
system that runs for a few months every
four years
if i have a scenario where for example
hey i'm just growing very fast
oh that's great here because my initial
outlay is small but as i grow
i'm going to pay more but my business is
doing well
if there is any kind of unexpected hey
i'm running standard oh and i get this
huge bump and then i go back to normal
i can react to that i'm paying for what
i'm using
so any place i have some variability
this consumption-based nature of the
cloud is really critical to lighting up
and being very efficient
in my scenarios
so
capex i'm purchasing some asset and i
need to use it for a certain lifespan
and it can really stifle my ability to
innovate because i have to keep using it
opex it's my operational expenditure
i think about things like the cloud
that's all consumption based i pay for
what i use as i'm using it
which really gives me a lot of
flexibility
anytime there's some variability
but honestly moving to the cloud might
just be cheaper anyway because of the
economics of the huge scale of these
cloud services
they can likely run those services
cheaper than we can in our own data
centers